Java Backend Developer

Location: Sofia, Bulgaria


Overview of the role:


Flutter is a FTSE 50 global leader in sports betting and gaming with annual revenues of over £4bn. Its strong and diverse portfolio of market-leading brands and best-in-class products provides its 13 million customers excitement and entertainment in a safe and responsible way. Flutter brands include Paddy Power, Sky Betting & Gaming, Betfair, Sportsbet, FoxBet, FanDuel, and PokerStars.


The Global Betting Platform (‘gbp’) is Flutter’s flagship proprietary sports betting platform and is being used by multiple Brands across the Group to power delivery of new Sports betting features at pace. Today the gbp product enables the generate of 33% of the total Flutter Group Sportsbook online revenue and has around 1.7m active customers across the multiple brands transacting on it.


As a Backend Engineer, you are part of a Software Development Team, responsible for the full lifecycle of an application. You will be working as part of a multidisciplinary team, multiple location environment to further evolve the gbp platform to become a truly world-class sports betting platform to power the Flutter Group to innovate and differentiate the experience we can provide to our customers across our multiple brands.


Reporting to a Technical Lead in a delivery team formed by 5 developers and 1 QA , you will be using cutting-edge technologies to deliver amazing value to our customers, while scaling our platform to meet the demands of worldwide markets. You will be required to program well-designed, testable, efficient code to solve business needs, as well as testing and documenting the implemented solutions.


You will have a bias for action and can break down complex problems into steps that drive the scalability, performance and stability of our platform.


This role follows a hybrid approach to working, allowing you to combine working from home with working in our modern offices. These discussions are between you and your manager to find the best pattern for you both, while recognising that quality time together is essential for keeping us mission-aligned.


Our teams work from a lively location nestled within this historic city. Enjoy the best of both worlds with winter and summer offices, tantalizing free snacks and a gaming paradise for endless entertainment.


What you’ll do:


As a team player in an Agile Team, working together to keep delivering at pace, scale and with demanded quality to support our products you will be able to:

    Execute full software development life cycle

    Develop flowcharts, layouts and documentation to support the Product Owner with requirements and the team with solutions

    Autonomously write well-designed, testable and efficient code

    Produce specifications and determine operational feasibility

    Integrate software components into a fully functional software system

    Develop unit, component and integrated tests, with the guidance of team's QA

    Document and maintain software functionality

    Troubleshoot, debug and upgrade existing systems

    Deploy applications in a Continuous Integration platform

    Ensure software is updated with latest features / versions in a timely manner


What you’ll bring:


Your experience:

    Hands-on experience in Java 8 (or above)

    Familiarity working with Client-server protocols such as SOAP, REST

    Experience working with Kafka and message queueing systems

    Knowledge of Scala, Akka, memcached, Apache Storm , ZooKeeper, Spring

    Understanding of relational and NoSQL databases, including MySQL and Apache Cassandra

    Insight into Docker and container technologies, including what it means to have an application containerized

    Experience of using established design patterns

    Awareness and experience in using agile methodologies

Desirable Competencies:

    You can establish close relationships with members of the development community inside and outside of own delivery team, underpinned by trust, integrity and respect.

    You are objective, impartial, and unbiased, ensuring equal treatment for all and that decisions taken are based on objective criteria. You are pragmatic and passionate for the art of problem solving.

    You work effectively and in partnership with other delivery community members inside and outside of own delivery team on company shared goals that align towards the achievement of the Flutter group technology strategy.

    You understand and appreciate different and opposing perspectives on an issue and you are able to adapt your approach in order to achieve a successful outcome.


It’s ok if you don’t think you tick every box on this list. We love people who want to challenge themselves and are passionate about what they do. If you believe you can contribute in some areas and are eager to learn, we encourage you to apply.


Why choose us:


Aside from a generous base salary, we have a fantastic benefits & rewards program that is designed to encourage personal and career development.

    Discretionary annual performance bonus

    30 days paid leave

    Health and Dental Insurance for you, your partner and your children (if you all live at the same address)

    Personal life insurance and disability coverage

    A personal interest allowance to let you learn something new or pursue a hobby

    External learning support of up to £2,000 or equivalent in local currency, dedicated 4 learning “Power Hours” every month during office time, full access to the Udemy and Mindtools platforms, in-house leadership program and many other training opportunities for developing your skills and progressing your career

    Looking to extend your family? You will receive a cash gift of 1,000 BGN for your new addition whilst working for us

    26 weeks primary carer leave at 100% pay & 4 weeks secondary carer leave pay at 100% pay

    A sports’ card membership valid across the country

    Discounts as a compliment form us among different services

    Monthly food vouchers


Equal opportunities:

At Flutter Functions we are committed to creating an inclusive environment where our people can be their authentic selves and thrive. We embrace and celebrate diversity, respecting all our uniqueness and differences.


We welcome you to let us know whether you have any accessibility needs. All you need to do is email us at talent@flutterint.com . Your journey with us is focused on ensuring you have what you need to be your best self.


Learn more about the works we are doing on Inclusion and Belonging here: https://careers.flutterinternational.com/working-at-flutter-international/diversity-equity-inclusion/


The group:

Flutter Functions is a proud member of the Flutter Entertainment family, a global leader in sports betting, iGaming, and entertainment. We're not just another company; we're listed on both the prestigious FTSE 100 index on the London Stock Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). What sets us apart is our world class brands, cutting-edge products, and our International division includes our operations in over 100 global markets and offers sports betting, casino, poker, rummy and lottery, mainly online. What truly defines us is our commitment to ensuring that the excitement of gaming and entertainment is experienced in a responsible and sustainable way. Our remarkable team of over 8,000 colleagues drives this vision, spread across 28 offices worldwide.
The Team
Group (80)

25 roles
Technology

Technology is at the heart of everything we do in Flutter International. With our always-up, always-available service, we’re working at the top of our game – using the best methodologies and operations. We focus on results and prioritize the innovation and latest technology that will help us get there. Our technology jobs are ideal for those who are driven by achieving the best outcome, every time.

Our people are:

- Team players;

- Driven by detail;

- Inquisitive and curious;

Have a look at our current live vacancies and apply now.
More About Technology

